README.md, before:

## Initial description, see Updates below

Trying to evolve a neural network population maximizing return and minimizing MDD using genetic algorithms.
Using direct encoding of NN parameters (weights and biases).

Simple architecture with an LSTM module followed by a linear layer with the final `tanh` activation.
Output $> 0.5$ results in a Buy signal, output $< -0.5$ results in a Sell signal.
Buying is for the minimal possible order size, Sell — closes the whole position.
Testing on 1s spot data for simplicity (all orders are Market orders).

The input to the model is very limited: only the ratio of the last two bars.
Richer input (price, volume, even the current position size etc.) should theoretically help the model.

After ~10 generations in pretty pleasant conditions (the price is rising), one of the models managed to earn $0.001753$ USDT.
After a few more generations, another model evolved to earn $0.002786$ USDT (after 2h of trading).
Impressive, innit?
The later result (weights) is saved in the `results.txt` file.

With 100 individuals in the population and with more generations, the results should be more impressive.
But that would be very time-consuming, especially when backtesting over a month — let alone an entire year.

## Updates

### 2025-04-28

Finally added code to restore individuals from `results.txt`.
This is probably better than having random seed resulting in one profitable individual in the initial generation.

### 2025-04-27

Found a random seed to roll a profitable individual in the first (initial) generation.
Should help reproducibility.

Also, found that wide parameters bounds (±10, ±20 etc.) result in long evolution before the first profitable individual.
Narrowind to ±5, or even to ±3 helps a lot.
After all, the weights in a NN should not be too big.

### 2025-04-26

Added commission per order (applied at buying and closing the position, proportional to the number of orders).

Had to keep the commission really low to evolve a profitable NN in a reasonable number of generations.

Also, added a soft saturation to the number of trades, by applying logarithm.
Alternatively, could use hard saturation at e.g. `100` trades (`-len(engine.positions[:100])`).

### 2025-04-25

Added the number of positions as a maximization objective.
Increased the size of the population to 100.
Managed to generate some profit after 10-20 generations.

Still no commission, though.

Commit message:

Save new profitable individuals emerged after bugfixes

README.md, after:

## Initial description, see Updates below

Trying to evolve a neural network population maximizing return and minimizing MDD using genetic algorithms.
Using direct encoding of NN parameters (weights and biases).

Simple architecture with an LSTM module followed by a linear layer with the final `tanh` activation.
Output $> 0.5$ results in a Buy signal, output $< -0.5$ results in a Sell signal.
Buying is for the minimal possible order size, Sell — closes the whole position.
Testing on 1s spot data for simplicity (all orders are Market orders).

The input to the model is very limited: only the ratio of the last two bars.
Richer input (price, volume, even the current position size etc.) should theoretically help the model.

After ~10 generations in pretty pleasant conditions (the price is rising), one of the models managed to earn $0.001753$ USDT.
After a few more generations, another model evolved to earn $0.002786$ USDT (after 2h of trading).
Impressive, innit?
The later result (weights) is saved in the `results.txt` file.

With 100 individuals in the population and with more generations, the results should be more impressive.
But that would be very time-consuming, especially when backtesting over a month — let alone an entire year.

## Updates

### 2025-04-29

Fixed a major bug in `NNTrader` where it stopped generating non-`HOLD` signals once the total position value reached `max_pos_value`.
So, it never closed such positions and were effectively stopping trading.

Also, fixed mess in total position value calculation, where it was summing order *prices*.

This resulted in a few noticeably profitable individuals after a dozen of generations.

### 2025-04-28

Finally added code to restore individuals from `results.txt`.
This is probably better than having random seed resulting in one profitable individual in the initial generation.

### 2025-04-27

Found a random seed to roll a profitable individual in the first (initial) generation.
Should help reproducibility.

Also, found that wide parameters bounds (±10, ±20 etc.) result in long evolution before the first profitable individual.
Narrowind to ±5, or even to ±3 helps a lot.
After all, the weights in a NN should not be too big.

### 2025-04-26

Added commission per order (applied at buying and closing the position, proportional to the number of orders).

Had to keep the commission really low to evolve a profitable NN in a reasonable number of generations.

Also, added a soft saturation to the number of trades, by applying logarithm.
Alternatively, could use hard saturation at e.g. `100` trades (`-len(engine.positions[:100])`).

### 2025-04-25

Added the number of positions as a maximization objective.
Increased the size of the population to 100.
Managed to generate some profit after 10-20 generations.

Still no commission, though.
